# 4.5.0

_Release date: 2024-03-25 | [Full changelog][changelog]._

This minor release includes the support of macOS arm64 with Kotlin Native, new
**experimental** factory functions for `NotBlankString`, changes to the
`EmailAddress` **experimental** type and much more!

[changelog]: https://github.com/kotools/types/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#4.5.0

## Installation

Add the following dependency to your project for using Kotools Types 4.5.0.

<details open>
<summary>Gradle - Kotlin DSL</summary>

```kotlin
implementation("org.kotools:types:4.5.0")
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Gradle - Groovy DSL</summary>

```groovy
implementation "org.kotools:types:4.5.0"
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Maven</summary>

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.kotools</groupId>
        <artifactId>types</artifactId>
        <version>4.5.0</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```
</details>

Visit the [API reference][api-reference] for more details on the declarations
provided by this library.

[api-reference]: https://types.kotools.org

## Features and improvements

### macOS arm64 support with Kotlin Native

Starting from this release, you can use Kotools Types on the macOS arm64
platform with Kotlin Native!

If your project is using Kotlin Multiplatform, we recommend you to depend on
Kotools Types like in the [installation](#installation) guide above.

If not, you can replace the `types` artifact identifier by `types-macosarm64`
instead.

<details open>
<summary>Gradle - Kotlin DSL</summary>

```kotlin
implementation("org.kotools:types-macosarm64:4.5.0")
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Gradle - Groovy DSL</summary>

```groovy
implementation "org.kotools:types-macosarm64:4.5.0"
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Maven</summary>

```xml
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.kotools</groupId>
        <artifactId>types-macosarm64</artifactId>
        <version>4.5.0</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```
</details>

### Experimental factory functions for `NotBlankString`

We've introduced the `create(Any?)` and the `createOrNull(Any?)`
**experimental** functions to the `NotBlankString.Companion` type for creating
an instance of `NotBlankString` from the string representation of the specified
value.

```kotlin
fun NotBlankString.Companion.create(value: Any?): NotBlankString
fun NotBlankString.Companion.createOrNull(value: Any?): NotBlankString?
```

Here's an example of calling the `create(Any?)` function from Kotlin code:

```kotlin
val text: NotBlankString = NotBlankString.create("Kotools Types")
println(text) // Kotools Types
```

The `NotBlankString` type being an inline value class, these functions are not
available yet for Java users.

### Changes to `EmailAddress`

Introduced by [Kotools Types 4.4.0] in the `kotools.types.experimental` package,
the `EmailAddress` **experimental** type is now located in a new
`kotools.types.web` package, dedicated to web related declarations.

Finally, the `regex` property of `EmailAddress` is now inaccessible for Java due
to the unavailability of the `kotlin.text.Regex` type for this language.

[Kotools Types 4.4.0]: https://github.com/kotools/types/releases/tag/4.4.0

## External contributions

As an Open-Source project, we love getting contributions from our community!

If you are looking to contribute, have questions, or want to keep up-to-date
about what's happening, please follow us here and say hi!

- [GitHub Discussions][github-discussions]
- [#kotools-types on Kotlin Slack][slack]

See the [contributing guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

[slack]: https://kotlinlang.slack.com/archives/C05H0L1LD25
[github-discussions]: https://github.com/kotools/types/discussions

## Reporting problems

If you find a problem with this release, please [report a bug][bug-report] on
GitHub.

We hope you will build great things with Kotools Types, and we look forward to
your feedback via [Slack], [Twitter] or [GitHub].

[bug-report]: https://github.com/kotools/types/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug-template.md&title=Bug
[github]: https://github.com/kotools
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/KotoolsContact
